# Weelil Site - [weelil.site](https://weelil.site)

#### _A web app for shortening URLs_
#### _By **Na Hyung Choi - April 28, 2020 - May 19, 2020**_


## Description
Weelil Site is a web app for shortening any given URL, similar to Bitly or TinyURL.

After a user inputs a URL in the text field and clicks the "Weelil It" button, a new URL in the format `weelil.site/123abc` is displayed to the user. The `123abc` part of the URL is a randomly generated 6-digit code. The user can then use the new shortened URL, which will redirect the user to the original input URL.

## **:warning: WARNING**
_Do not use the URLs generated by Weelil Site for long-term use._ That is, do not put a Weelil Site URL on a document or a web page that will be viewed or used for a long time. I plan to relinquish the `weelil.site` domain and take down this site at the end of March 2021 because the cost for me to use this domain will increase after the first year. :stuck_out_tongue:

## Latest Updates (May 19, 2020)
* Converted front end from jQuery and Crossroads.js to React and React Router - this made the redirecting more graceful.
* Added a "copy to clipboard" button for the new shortend URL

## Future Work
* Before assigning a new URL to a randomly generated slug and saving to database, make sure that the slug doesn't already exist in the database. The chances of repeating a randomly generated 6-digit code made of alphanumeric characters (lowercase only) are 1 in over 2 billion, it's still possible.
* Restrict API access.
* Check if the input URL already exists in the database, and if so, return the matching existing slug. This will prevent crowding the database with multiple slugs for the same URL.
* Improve error handling.

## Technologies Used
* Back end - AWS Lambda, API Gateway, DynamoDB
* Front end - React, React-Bootstrap, React Router
* Toolchain - npm, webpack

## Development Server Setup

1. Clone this repository:
    ```
    $ git clone https://github.com/schoinh/weelil-site.git
    ```
2. Install dependencies:
    ```
    $ cd weelil-site
    $ npm install
    ```
3. Run development server:
    ```
    $ npm start
    ```
4. Navigate in your browser (Chrome recommended) to http://localhost:8080

## Support and Contact Details

_Please email Na Hyung with questions and comments. Issues and pull requests are welcome!_

## License

_GNU GPLv3_

Copyright (c) 2020 **_Na Hyung Choi_**